---
title: Election Thoughts
layout: post
---

<style>
matt {
    background-color: rgba(241, 196, 15, 0.3);
    padding: 0.4rem 0.5rem;
}
others {
    background-color: #eee;
    padding: 0.4rem 0.5rem;
}
</style>

Perhaps I'm paying more attention to this U.S. Presidential election because I have children now.

Or perhaps, it's actually as unusually bizarre as it seems.

---

I polled Facebook to see what friends are thinking about candidates.  I'll share a summary of their thoughts and also my own thoughts.  My distilled thoughts look like <matt>this.</matt>  Summarized info from the poll looks like <others>this.</others>

I know, I know&mdash;sharing political opinions is dangerous.  This could get dicey. :sweat:  But if everyone's afraid of saying what they actually think, our country doesn't work.

To be clear: I might disagree with you, but **I don't hate you.**  I'm trying to be reasonable and fair in my analysis.  If you think I might be misunderstanding something or otherwise lack information, you're welcome to email me (or if you want to be anonymous, [fill this out](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1y1fbBZYAiK_Gk8SVGiSK_ts_529XzWLiDwLJjoc8t70/viewform)), 

Here we go...

---

# What does the President even do?

The [Constitution (a.k.a. "The Rules")](https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/United_States_of_America_1992) says that the President (in summary):

1. executes the law
2. gets paid
3. shall "preserve, protect and defend the Constitution"
4. is the Command in Chief of the military
5. grants "repreives and pardons"
6. makes treaties
7. nominates and appoints all kinds of people
8. gives recommendations to congress from time to time
9. convenes and adjourns congress in some cases (didn't know this)
10. interfaces with other country's governments
11. avoids getting impeached

You may notice something that's conspicuously absent from the list:

- makes laws

"When I'm President, I'll repeal Obamacare!"

"Oh!" says the nice lady at the *So You Want to Be a Politican?* workshop. "You signed up for the wrong position.  *Senators and Representatives* are the ones that repeal Obamacares." 

The President doesn't make (or repeal) laws.  *And yet* how much time do candidates spend telling you about all the changes (*laws*) they plan to make?  I think it mainly comes from duty #8 above ("gives recommendations to congress from time to time") and because he's the leader.  He leads the country, and the legislators.

<matt>He doesn't make the laws&mdash;he leads the legislators to make them.</matt>

<br/>

# What am I looking for in a leader?

From my life's experience, I know that I like to follow leaders that are:

- good
- happy and optimistic
- brave
- honest and forthright
- efficient and decisive
- knowledgeable
- good spelller
- patiently persuasive
- faithful and prayerful

I could probably list a bunch of other words, too.


# What am I looking for in a President?

I have feelings about certain issues, and the issues do come into my decision.  But I'll be honest&mdash;<matt>I would rather have a President that is a good leader, even if I disagree with him on some issues.</matt>

And so, I'm going to couch a good chunk of my decision in these scenarios:

1. Would I want him helping me escape a war zone?
2. Would I want him as my children's first grade teacher?
3. Would I want him as my boss?
4. Would I want him as a business partner?
5. Would I want him in charge of food in famine?
6. Would I want him spending the night at my house?
7. Would I want him managing my 401k?
8. Do I think he'll be a good President?


# The Candidates (Alphabetically)

## Ben Carson

1. Would I want him helping me escape a war zone? <matt>maybe</matt>
2. Would I want him as my children's first grade teacher? <matt>Yes!</matt>
3. Would I want him as my boss? <matt>yes</matt>
4. Would I want him as a business partner? <matt>yes</matt>
5. Would I want him in charge of food in famine? <matt>yes</matt>
6. Would I want him spending the night at my house? <matt>yes</matt>
7. Would I want him managing my 401k? <matt>yes</matt>
8. Do I think he'll be a good President?


## Hillary Clinton

1. Would I want her helping me escape a war zone? <matt>no</matt>
2. Would I want her as my children's first grade teacher? <matt>no</matt>
3. Would I want her as my boss? <matt>No!</matt>
4. Would I want her as a business partner? <matt>No!</matt>
5. Would I want her in charge of food in famine? <matt>no</matt>
6. Would I want her spending the night at my house? <matt>no</matt>
7. Would I want her managing my 401k? <matt>no way</matt>
8. Do I think she'll be a good President?


## Ted Cruz

1. Would I want him helping me escape a war zone? <matt>probably</matt>
2. Would I want him as my children's first grade teacher? <matt>maybe</matt>
3. Would I want him as my boss? <matt>no</matt>
4. Would I want him as a business partner? <matt>no</matt>
5. Would I want him in charge of food in famine? <matt>maybe</matt>
6. Would I want him spending the night at my house? <matt>maybe</matt>
7. Would I want him managing my 401k? <matt>sure</matt>
8. Do I think he'll be a good President?


## John Kasich

1. Would I want him helping me escape a war zone? <matt>maybe</matt>
2. Would I want him as my children's first grade teacher? <matt>Yes</matt>
3. Would I want him as my boss? <matt>sure</matt>
4. Would I want him as a business partner? <matt>sure</matt>
5. Would I want him in charge of food in famine? <matt>maybe</matt>
6. Would I want him spending the night at my house? <matt>sure</matt>
7. Would I want him managing my 401k? <matt>I don't know</matt>
8. Do I think he'll be a good President?


## Marco Rubio

1. Would I want him helping me escape a war zone? <matt>probably</matt>
2. Would I want him as my children's first grade teacher? <matt>yes</matt>
3. Would I want him as my boss? <matt>yes</matt>
4. Would I want him as a business partner? <matt>yes</matt>
5. Would I want him in charge of food in famine? <matt>yes</matt>
6. Would I want him spending the night at my house? <matt>yes</matt>
7. Would I want him managing my 401k? <matt>yes</matt>
8. Do I think he'll be a good President?


## Bernie Sanders

1. Would I want him helping me escape a war zone? <matt>no -- we'd die</matt>
2. Would I want him as my children's first grade teacher? <matt>yes</matt>
3. Would I want him as my boss? <matt>no</matt>
4. Would I want him as a business partner? <matt>no</matt>
5. Would I want him in charge of food in famine? <matt>no</matt>
6. Would I want him spending the night at my house? <matt>sure</matt>
7. Would I want him managing my 401k? <matt>absolutely not!</matt>
8. Do I think he'll be a good President?


## Donald Trump

1. Would I want him helping me escape a war zone? <matt>maybe... if he wouldn't ditch me</matt>
2. Would I want him as my children's first grade teacher? <matt>no</matt>
3. Would I want him as my boss? <matt>No!</matt>
4. Would I want him as a business partner? <matt>no</matt>
5. Would I want him in charge of food in famine? <matt>no</matt>
6. Would I want him spending the night at my house? <matt>no</matt>
7. Would I want him managing my 401k? <matt>maybe</matt>
8. Do I think he'll be a good President?



## Someone else?


